#summary How to develop Hotwire
#labels Featured

= Dependencies =

Hotwire requires [http://python.org Python >= 2.5], [http://pygtk.org PyGTK] at a minimum.

== Linux/Unix ==
On Linux you will want your operating system's packages of the Python bindings for `gconf`, `gnomevfs`, `vte`, `dbus`, `gtksourceview`, though Hotwire should work (with reduced functionality) without them.  


=== Fedora 7/8 ===
{{{
yum install gnome-python2-gnomevfs python-dbus gnome-python2-desktop gnome-python2-gconf  vte pygtksourceview
}}}

=== Debian/Ubuntu ===

{{{
apt-get install python-vte python-dbus python-gnome2 python-pygtksourceview
}}}

== Windows ==

See HotwireWindows.

= Source Code Using Subversion =

{{{
svn checkout http://hotwire-shell.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ hotwire
}}}

See [http://code.google.com/p/hotwire-shell/source Source page] for more information on checking out the code, and [http://svnbook.red-bean.com/en/1.1/ch03s05.html SVNBook] for information about working with a Subversion source tree.

= Source Code Using Git =

The Hotwire author has found [http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/git-svn.html git-svn] to be extremely useful for doing Hotwire development using [http://git.or.cz/ Git], but maintaining the canonical source in SVN.

= Running Hotwire from source =

Run this command from the source tree after having checked out from Subversion or unpacking the Zip file:

{{{
python ui/hotwire
}}}

That's it!  There is no compilation process, everything should work uninstalled.

== Using Hotwire to hack Hotwire ==

Use the ''-n'' option to tell Hotwire to create a new instance:

{{{
python ui/hotwire -n
}}}

= What to hack on? =

See issues tagged with "HotwireLoveBug" for a bug that a new developer could start on.  Or see [FutureFeaturesWhiteboard] for a larger-scope brainstorming area.

= Architecture =

See HotwireArchitecture for a technical overview.

= Communication =

Discussion happens on the [http://groups.google.com/group/hotwire-shell Hotwire Google Group].  There is also a new IRC channel, #hotwire on `irc.freenode.net`.

For patches please [http://code.google.com/p/hotwire-shell/issues/list file an issue], but if you think a patch will need a lot of discussion feel free to send it to the discussion group.

= Related Projects and Sources of Ideas =

See RelatedProjectsAndIdeas.