#summary About Hotwire

Hotwire is:

 * An intelligent hybrid text/graphical shell for developers and system administrators
 * A replacement for `gnome-terminal`/`xterm` + `/bin/sh` on Linux/Unix (HotwireVsBinSh)
 * A replacement for [http://www.microsoft.com/windowsserver2003/technologies/management/powershell/default.mspx Windows PowerShell] on Windows (HotwireVsPowerShell)
 * Also slightly influenced by [http://www.apple.com/macosx/features/automator/ MacOS X Automator]
 * [http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html Free Software] and runs on Linux (with [http://gnome.org GNOME]) and Windows (HotwireWindows)
 * Written in [http://python.org Python]

See the [wiki:Screenshots], join the [http://groups.google.com/group/hotwire-shell Google Group], learn about GettingStarted.

= Downloads =

The current version of Hotwire is 0.595 (HotwireChanges). 

 * Source Code: [http://code.google.com/p/hotwire-shell/downloads/list Downloads]

 * Fedora: You should be able to '''yum install hotwire''' on Fedora 7.
 * Ubuntu: Looks to be available [http://www.getdeb.net/app.php?name=Hotwire here], also I imagine the Debian package will migrate through?
 * Mandriva: Cooker users can just install the 'hotwire' package. 2007 Spring users need to [http://wiki.mandriva.com/en/Docs/Basic_tasks/Installing_and_removing_software#Advanced_use:_Backports_and_candidate_updates enable the /contrib/backports repository], then they can install the 'hotwire' package.
 * Archlinux: The [http://aur.archlinux.org/packages.php?do_Details=1&ID=12103 package] lives in AUR, so you can 'makepkg' it or just use Yaourt to install it.
 * Debian: Looks like Hotwire is [http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=428147 currently being packaged].
 
 * Windows: [http://code.google.com/p/hotwire-shell/downloads/list Downloads], but this version is getting old now.  We need a hacker who can help bring the Windows support up to par.

= Development =

Want to hack on Hotwire?  Help define the shell of the future! See: HotwireDevelopment